ranana gome is one of many Israelis
whose lives changed Forever on the 7th
of October when Hamas terrorists are
crossed into Israel killing more than
1,400 people and kidnapping more than
200 her two sons aged 12 and 16 were
among those taken
hostage we uh all woke up to the red
alert at 6:30 Saturday morning October
7th I was away uh they slept alone at my
house um they're 12 and 16 on a normal
World teenagers can can do that every
now and again
um and um I called them just to see that
they uh know the you know the routine
unfortunately that that they need to go
into the safe room which is uh the
eldest um bedroom as well um and they
were and um then I just stayed uh with
them on the phone every few minutes to
you know they were scared obviously
there was
a barriage of rockets falling at us um
uh so well uh they were quite scared um
at a certain point they said they
started hearing gunshots outside the
house and I told them uh it was probably
the Army protecting us uh I started
getting text messages from other members
of
community um we live in a small
community of about 400 people
me so we started getting texts um saying
that there are terrorists walking
outside freely uh Dressed in the uh IDF
army
uniform um and you know telling people
not to go outside and not to open doors
and then the texts went into saying that
they started breaking into
houses and uh taking people away and
burning families in inside their
house
uh just uh half an hour an hour later I
can't give you know the timeline is is
all blurred um they said they called me
and they said they hear someone breaking
in uh they whispered and I asked them to
be quiet and to stay on the line with me
and just a few minutes later I could
hear a few people uh speaking between
them probably two or three people
speaking between them in Arabic and the
daughter safe room broke even though my
eldest held it very very strongly he's a
strong lad but he couldn't hold it
anymore and they opened the the safe
rooms door and uh I could hear my
youngest saying on the phone well I
could hear him on the phone saying to
them uh don't take me I'm too
young and that was it the line cut off
and uh that's the last I've heard of him
um
and they were dragged into Gaza and I
don't even know I don't know where they
are and where they're about or who
they're with or even there if they're
still alive and what have you heard from
the the the government has anyone been
in touch has anybody told you what what
steps are being taken to try and secure
their
release uh no well they they did you
know there's always someone who's
supposed to be like a contact person on
cases like this but they don't have any
new information that they can give me uh
and I presume that even if they were to
have new information they wouldn't give
it to me and they you know there's 200
families in Israel waiting for this
those news and um obviously it's uh it's
it might work against um the actual um
release if um if they were to give any
information so
and last on on Friday we we heard that
the news that two people had been uh
released that must have given you some
hope it has actually yes um you know I
would say that um
um as they know that we treasure life
they will keep them uh they will keep
them safe because they know they're
worth a lot more alive so this is my
hope
and obviously to see those two ladies uh
released uh in a good condition and U in
good health it it did give me a lot of
hope that
uh that there that there can be a good
end to this
tragedy and meanwhile um the IDF does
appear to be building up to a ground
offensive in Gaza um part of the aims of
which is getting the hostages back is
that the right thing to do to go in on
the
ground um obviously I'm not the um um
IDF chief commander and um don't want to
be um and I'm not an army uh expert so
um it's it's a bit unfair to ask me as a
mother obviously I don't want the IDF to
go in before they take my children out
and to be honest I'm against War at for
for any
uh on the other
hand I saw them as neighbors all these
years and look what they've done to us
they've murdered and raped and butchered
people and families complete families
were butchered in their
beds so um I must say I don't have uh
the the answer to that all I know is I
want my children back home now before
any other
um uh move is done or
taken um I don't know what the best way
to get them out is I if it was up to me
obviously I'd rather have um some kind
of transaction and have their prisoners
released doesn't matter in a year's time
we'll have another you know 5,000 or
6,000 prisoners in our in our sales
given hot meals and hot showers and
telephones
so all I know is I want my children back
home now understood and and clearly this
has been a terrible traumatizing
experience why did you agree to talk to
us about
it uh because I want the world to know
and I want the world to uh enlist to the
effort of releasing them children should
not be a part of the war game they're
not bargain ships and um
I think the world uh has um a great deal
of power on
Palestinians uh the EU has a lot of
power Qatar has a lot of power the US
has a lot of power uh a lot of money is
flowing into the Palestinian um state so
to speak uh it was supposed this money
was supposed to build a Palestinian
state but it instead it was used to
build an a terror organization
and I think the world should know that
and the world should again Enlisted the
effort of releasing my children and the
other children there are 31 children who
are uninvolved in any in any way um I
want the world to enlist to their to the
effort of releasing them now I want them
home now there's no and you know there's
no reason to hold them and and the first
thing you'll do say to them when you get
them
home
I don't want to say anything I just want
to hug them and have them in my
arms and want to make them feel safe
again and feel home again even they
don't have a home to come back to but
they have me to come back
to well thank you for telling your story
and sharing your story with us and we
wish you um the best of all possible
outcomes renina gome a mother of two
boys held hostages by Hamas thank you so
much
thank you for having
me